**Block in Bitcoin**

```
+--------------------+
|---Magic-Number-----| *--4--bytes
+--------------------+
|-----Blocksize------| *--4--bytes
+--------------------+
|----Block-Header----| *--80--bytes
+--------------------+
|----Txn-counter-----| *--VarInt(1-9-bytes)
+--------------------+
|---Transactions-----| *---transaction--list
+--------------------+

```

***Explanation Of Block In Bitcoin**

* * **Magic Number:** This serves as the network identifier. The value is a constant 0xD9B4BEF9 , which indicates the main network, while the constant 0xDAB5BFFA indicates the testnet.

* * **Block Size:** This is the size of the block in bytes.

* * **Block Header:** A block header is used to identify a particular block on a bitcoin network and is hashed repeatedly to create proof of work for mining rewards.

* * **Transaction Counter:** This is the number of Bitcoin transactions included in a block.


**Blockheader in Bitcoin**

```
+--------------------+
|----Block Header----| (Contains)
+--------------------+
|-----Version--------|  *--32--bit-signed-integer
|----Previous-Hash---|  *--32-bit-character
|----Merkle Root-----|  *--32-bit-character
|----Timestamp-------|  *--32--bit-unsigned-integer
|----Difficulty------|  *--32--bit-unsigned-integer
|------Nonce---------|  *--32--bit-unsigned-integer
+--------------------+

```

**Explanation Of BlockHeader In Bitcoin:**

* **Version:** The block version number indicates which set of block validation rules to follow.
* **Previous Hash:** A SHA256(SHA256()) hash in internal byte order of the previous block’s header. This ensures no previous block can be changed without also changing this block’s header.
* **Merkle Root:** A SHA256(SHA256()) hash in internal byte order. The merkle root is derived from the hashes of all transactions included in this block, ensuring that none of those transactions can be modified without modifying the header.
* **Timestamp:** The block time is a Unix epoch time when the miner started hashing the header (according to the miner). Must be strictly greater than the median time of the previous 11 blocks. Full nodes will not accept blocks with headers more than two hours in the future according to their clock.
* **Difficulty Target:** An encoded version of the target threshold this block’s header hash must be less than or equal to.
* **Nonce:** A random number miners modify to find a hash that meets the difficulty target.
* **Transactions:** An arbitrary number miners change to modify the header hash in order to produce a hash less than or equal to the target threshold. If all 32-bit values are tested, the time can be updated or the coinbase transaction can be changed and the merkle root updated.

**How Blocks Are Linked In Bitcoin:**

```
 Genesis Block
+---------+-
|--Header-| | (Hash)  
+---------+ |<------  
|--Others-| |       | 
+---------+-        |
                    |
Second Block        | 
+---------+-        |
|--Header-|<|-------  
+---------+ |<------  
|--Others-| |(Hash) | 
+---------+-        |
                    |
 Third Block        |
+---------+-        |
|--Header-|--------  
+---------+ 
|--Others-|      
+---------+- 
```

**Explanation Of How Blocks Are Linked In Bitcoin:**

* **Unique Block Hash:** Each block has its own unique identifier, generated by a cryptographic hash function
specifically double Sha of the Block header

```
+---------+-
|--Header-|---> Sha256() --->Sha254() ----> Hash 
+---------+   
```
* **Previous Block Hash:** More importantly, every block also includes the hash of the previous block in its header data. This essentially creates a chain where each block references the one before it.



**How Blocks Create the Blockchain:**


```
   MEMPOOL
+--------------------+
| [Txn1]<--  [Txn2]<-|-----                    
|         |          |    |
| [Txn3]  |  [Txn3]<-|--  |
+---------|----------+  | |
          |             | |
        +-------------------+  
        |  Block Data       |
        +-------------------+
                  |
                  |
                  |
                  V
               Mining()
                  |
                  |
                  V
                Block             

```

Imagine a public spreadsheet where everyone can see the history of all Bitcoin transactions. This spreadsheet is constantly growing, with new blocks (pages) added on top of the existing ones.  Here's how it works:

1. **Transactions Occur:** People send and receive Bitcoins.
2. **Miners Validate:** Miners collect these transactions and verify their legitimacy.
3. **Block Creation:** Miners bundle verified transactions into a new block.
4. **Mining Process:** Miners compete to solve a complex math problem to secure the block. The first miner to find a solution "mines" the block.
5. **Block Added:** The winning miner's block gets added to the top of the blockchain.
6. **Reward Granted:** The winning miner receives a reward in Bitcoins.


